"x"
"After the IPL auction this year, Royal Challengers Bangalore had been deemed as one of the best teams on paper. They had top-class batsmen in Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers and Quinton de Kock, young spin sensations Yuzvendra Chahal and Washington Sundar, and the likes of Umesh Yadav and Chris Woakes in their pace attack. They seemed to have ticked all the boxes."
"After a terrible outing last season, many believed this was a squad that could turn things around for the franchise."
"Halfway through the group stage though, Indian skipper Virat Kohli's RCB have slumped to five losses in seven matches. Right now, their chances of making play-offs look as slight as the percentage of successful catches they’ve made this season."
"So what went wrong?"
"Here’s a look at some factors that could have been the main reasons behind Bangalore’s failure to win matches despite having a winning combination."
"With stars like Virat and AB de Villiers, RCB have always been known for their enviable batting line-up. This season, the management appeared to have made a conscious decision to invest in their bowling line-up. Besides bringing Chahal and Pawan Negi back, the franchise bagged two other spinners — Sundar and Murugan Ashwin. The team has five Indian pace options along with Kiwi star Tim Southee. That’s not all. RCB also has Moeen Ali, Colin de Grandhomme and Chris Woakes for all-rounders."
"All these options, but RCB has suffered most in their death overs. Looking back at the games they’ve played so far, and one notices that since first-choice bowlers Umesh Yadav and Chahal bowl all their four overs early on, the pressure of the death overs is usually felt by the foreign players or Sundar, which has proved to be expensive."
"While Virat and de Villiers are among the top run-getters in the ongoing season of the IPL, several names who were expected to perform haven’t quite managed to make a mark so far. The opening combination of the Quinton de Kock and Brendon McCullum had partnerships of 18, 1 and 4 in the first three games after which McCullum was dropped and Kohli elevated to the opening spot. But for RCB, putting up totals hasn’t been as much of an issue as defending totals has been."
"India’s star wristspinner Yuzi Chahal has picked up seven wickets in seven matches while star campaigner in the Nidahas Trophy, Sundar, has managed just four wickets in 6 matches. In fact, death overs specialist Woakes has been hit for a lot of runs in the final overs, returning with figures of 0/40, 1/31, 2/47, 2/36 and 3/36."
"Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers came as obvious choices for Royal Challengers Bangalore to retain for the 11th edition of the IPL. But their third choice, Sarfraz Khan, came as a mystery. Some wondered whether picking him was a way to give the captain more money, or if RCB was just trying to save money."
"Either way, the third player could have been retained for up to Rs 3 crore, which meant RCB could have gone for a wiser choice. And that may have just made the difference."
"Dropping Ambati Rayudu in the match against Chennai Super Kings or Chris Lynn in the one against Kolkata Knight Riders, fielding has definitely not been one of RCB’s strong points this season. Captain Kohli himself admitted after the loss to KKR on 29 April, the lapse in fielding."
"On the bright side, RCB can still qualify for the play-offs. The franchise needs at least six wins in the seven games that they have remaining. What’s left to see, if captain Virat can bolster a turnaround like that!"
"(With statistical inputs from Arun Gopalakrishnan)"
"(The Quint is now on WhatsApp. To receive handpicked stories on topics you care about, subscribe to our WhatsApp services. Just go to TheQuint.com/WhatsApp and hit Send.)"
"(The Quint is now on WhatsApp. To receive handpicked stories on topics you care about, subscribe to our WhatsApp services. Just go to TheQuint.com/WhatsApp and hit the Subscribe button.)"
